1 | Pa g e 
 
 
 
 
 
BODHI SAMBAD 2026 
An international Conference on ‘China in South Asia’ 
 
 
Proposed Date: 21-23 May 2026 (TBC) 
Duration: 3-4 days 
Location: Kathmandu, Nepal 
 
 
Context 
 
The increasing presence of China in South Asia has fundamentally changed the geopolitical, economic, 
security and strategic landscape of the region. As Beijing expands its multi-layered economic, political, 
and security engagements across the region through initiatives like the Belt and Road, it is reshaping 
the traditional regional power dynamics, connectivity patterns, economic and trade partnerships. While 
Chinese investments have funded major infrastructure projects, they have also raised concerns about 
unsustainable debt burdens and strategic encirclement. Lately, China has sought to influence domestic 
processes, whether it is shaping public opinion, influencing policies, or encouraging new development 
and governance models, and the support for governments undergoing democratic decline. 
Beijing has employed a multi-faceted approach to expand its influence in South Asia, focusing on 
economic partnerships, security cooperation and political ties. Its security and defense strategies 
include arms sales and defense equipment transfers to countries like Pakistan and Bangladesh, joint 
military exercises, and construction of dual-use infrastructure such as ports
1
. Politically, China has 
cultivated close relationships through high-level diplomatic visits, support for friendly factions, and 
use of economic leverage to influence decision-making
2
.China has also employed soft power tactics 
to increase its influence. China has been promoting Mandarin language learning and offering 
scholarships to South Asian students. It has been aggressively pursuing Buddhist diplomacy, 
particularly with Sri Lanka and Nepal, guided by its larger strategy to
 
1
 https://foreignaffairs.house.gov/china-snapshot-project-south-asia/ 
2
 https://thediplomat.com/2024/05/jabin-jacob-on-chinas-growing-influence-in-south-asia/

2 | Pa g e 
 
 
co-opt Buddhism across South and South East Asia. Further, expanding cultural exchanges and 
promotion of Chinese cuisine, entertainment and sports is gradually shaping Chinese dominance across 
the region
3
. 
 
Rationale For the Conference 
 
Fragmented mechanisms exist for South Asian countries to realize and analyze their interactions with 
China, impeding the development of a comprehensive regional understanding. Individual South Asian 
countries often examine China's engagement through narrow bilateral lenses, missing the broader 
regional patterns and implications. Current research and policy discourse lack the comprehensive 
regional perspective necessary to address shared challenges and opportunities that transcend national 
boundaries. 
Addressing these limitations through collectively generating knowledge and increased dialogue could 
help countries develop more nuanced approaches to engaging with China, potentially strengthening 
their bargaining positions. 
 
Aims and Objectives 
 
The high-level 3-4 day conference is aimed to promote as a regional hub for dialogue on China-
South Asia relations. It aims to bring together policymakers, think tanks, activists, scholars based in 
South Asia or other countries— monitoring and analyzing China’s growing engagements in the 
region to discuss trends, patterns, scale and influence of Chinese engagements on South Asia’s security, 
political, economic and cultural sphere. 
The conference also aims to facilitate informed discussion on growing India-China geopolitical rivalry 
in the region and its implications for non-nuclear small states in the neighbourhood, and how China- 
India rise; alongside engagement of other countries within the framework of broader Indo-Pacific 
Strategy would impact the region stability and strategic choices of South Asian states. 
 
Conference Format and Activities 
Phase I 
Initially CESIF will convene a regional working group of think tanks across South Asian countries, 
particularly from Nepal, India, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Myanmar. The CESIF team will conduct 
 
3
 https://kathmandupost.com/columns/2023/12/20/china-s-growing-footprint-in-south-asia

3 | Pa g e 
 
 
an initial strategy meeting among the members of the working group to develop consensus on 
priority areas of each countries regarding China’s engagements, including the themes, session topics 
and experts, and the ways to leverage the conference to identify potential areas of collaboration, and 
develop collective response and further roadmap. 
 
Phase II 
In advance of the main international conference in kathmandu, CESIF in collaboration with working 
group partners will organize a virtual dialogue among the group and other invited regional 
stakeholders from each countries, including the academia, media, civil society and governments to 
hold extensive discussion on country-specific CCP engagements and offer space for comparative 
analysis of response. The country specific presentations (and a panel discussion) will foster cross-
country learning and form a basis for the design of international conference. 
 
Phase III 
The main international conference will be held in Kathmandu on May 2026. Apart from experts and 
members of the working group from South Asia, the event is expected to host experts working on 
China studies and familiar with China’s engagements in South Asia, from South East Asia, Europe, 
Australia, US, UK, Japan, Singapore and other countries. 
 
The conference will host 1 or 2 (TBD) members of the think tanks of the regional working group as 
panelists/speakers. CESIF will bear all the cost for travel and accomodation for the invited delegates. 
The conference is expected to be a three day event (the first two days focused on China in South Asia 
theme). The conference will feature country specific presentations and atleast 10 panel discussions on 
identified themes. Some closed door roundtables on critical issues will be organized apart from the 
panel discussion. Some on-call meeting with high level Nepali government officials will also be 
planned for the delegates. 
 
Potential Themes for the Conference 
 
The conference will center upon China’s multifaceted engagements in South Asia and the wider 
region, and its implications for democratic resilience and strategic autonomy for South Asian 
countries. The themes of the discussion would also include how China’s rise is unfolding 
contestation with the traditional powers in the region and devise strategic choices for the South 
Asian countries to navigate this unfolding geopolitical realities. 
Some potential themes for the conference- 
• The Great Power Rivalry in South Asia- Strategic dilemma for small states

4 | Pa g e 
 
 
• China’s peripheral diplomacy- Shifting patterns of cross-border ties 
• BRI in South Asia: Enthusiasm to Skepticism 
• China’s influence on Governance, politics and institutions (Political Influence and Democratic 
Resilience) 
• Economic Engagements: Debt, Transparency, and Sovereignty 
• Information warfare and disinformation campaigns: Raising threat for South Asia 
• Soft power, cultural influence and civilizational narratives- A new Dependency? 
• Shifting security landscape in South Asia: Navigating China’ security and defence 
engagements 
(The themes presented here are indicative and should be tailored and improvised further after 
stakeholder consultations and participants profile) 
 
Target participants 
 
• Members of the South Asian think tanks actively involved in researching and analyzing China’s 
engagement and influence in South Asian countries 
• Scholars specializing in Chinese foreign policy, economics, security, and soft power, from 
universities and research institutions globally 
• Researchers focusing on information manipulation, propaganda, and media influence, 
particularly in the context of state-sponsored campaigns 
• Advocacy groups focused on democratic norms and civic space in South Asia 
• Reporters and editors from mainstream and independent media outlets across South Asia and 
beyond, particularly those covering foreign affairs, economic development, and geopolitical 
issues in South Asia and Indo-Pacific region 
• Government Officials, Policy makers, security officials, diplomats and civil society members 
involved in bilateral and regional relations with China, as well as those shaping Indo-Pacific 
strategies 
• Representatives from industries involved in trade, investment, and infrastructure projects with 
China, offering insights into economic realities and challenges.

5 | Pa g e 
 
 
Expected Outcomes 
 
The overarching goal of the conference is to deepen the intellectual understanding of China’s influence 
in South Asia through meticulous discussion among the concerned stakeholders and devise policy 
option to effectively deal with Chinese foothold to foster a resilient, prosperous and strategically 
autonomous South Asia. 
 
In particular, the conference is expected to enhance the regional understanding and shared perspectives 
on China’s role in South Asia beyond the individual national viewpoints, and foster the collective 
bargaining positions in engagements with China for common benefit. 
Furthermore, the conference would maximize the collaborative efforts of South Asian think tanks and 
enhance their capacity to derive policy recommendations through unified and informed approach. 
 
For Further Queries- 
Centre for Social Innovation and Foreign Policy (CESIF) 
Kathmandu, Nepal 
info@cesifnepal.org 
www.cesifnepal.org